# Schema Design

<p className="learn-subtitle">
  Design and evolve a type system over time without versions
</p>

## Versioning

While there's nothing that prevents a GraphQL service from being versioned just
like any other API, GraphQL takes a strong opinion on avoiding versioning by
providing the tools for the continuous evolution of a GraphQL schema.

Why do most APIs version? When there's limited control over the data that's
returned from an API endpoint, _any change_ can be considered a breaking change,
and breaking changes require a new version. If adding new features to an API
requires a new version, then a tradeoff emerges between releasing often and
having many incremental versions versus the understandability and
maintainability of the API.

In contrast, GraphQL only returns the data that's explicitly requested, so new
capabilities can be added via new types or new fields on existing types without
creating a breaking change. This has led to a common practice of always avoiding
breaking changes and serving a versionless API.

## Nullability

Most type systems which recognise "null" provide both the common type and the
_nullable_ version of that type, whereby default types do not include "null"
unless explicitly declared. However, in a GraphQL type system, every field is
_nullable_ by default. This is because there are many things that can go awry in
a networked service backed by databases and other services. A database could go
down, an asynchronous action could fail, an exception could be thrown. Beyond
simply system failures, authorization can often be granular, where individual
fields within a request can have different authorization rules.

By defaulting every field to _nullable_, any of these reasons may result in just
that field returned "null" rather than having a complete failure for the
request. Instead, GraphQL provides [non-null](/learn/schema/#lists-and-non-null)
variants of types which make a guarantee to clients that if requested, the field
will never return "null". Instead, if an error occurs, the previous parent field
will be "null" instead.

When designing a GraphQL schema, it's important to keep in mind all the problems
that could go wrong and if "null" is an appropriate value for a failed field.
Typically it is, but occasionally, it's not. In those cases, use non-null types
to make that guarantee.
