---
title: "Call for Participation for FOSDEM API & Friends devroom"
tags: ["blog"]
date: 2024-11-04
byline: Jem Gillam
---

We are excited to announce the [Call for Participation for the FOSDEM 2025 APIs: GraphQL, OpenAPI, AsyncAPI & Friends Devroom](https://pretalx.fosdem.org/fosdem-2025/cfp).

## What is FOSDEM?

[FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/) is a two day, free and non-commercial event held in Brussels, Belguim, in February each year. It brings together over 8,000 software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate on free and open source software. The FOSDEM team feel it is very important that developers get to meet offline and so run Devrooms to facilitate this - rooms with talks, panels and showcases centered around one theme where developers can share ideas and publicly present their latest findings, news and projects in a collaborative atmosphere.

## What is the APIs & Friends Devroom?

A platform for developers, technologists, and enthusiasts to come together to discuss, learn, and collaborate on topics around APIs and Open Source. Open collaboration is a driving force behind APIs and open-source projects, and we look forward to talks on community-driven technologies such as OpenAPI, GraphQL, AsyncAPI, gRPC and webhooks.

## Suggested Topics

We welcome submissions about, but not limited to:

- Your favourite Open Source project: tooling, frameworks, SDKs, API gateway, etc.
- Topics related to API standards such as OpenAPI, GraphQL, JSON Schema or AsyncAPI.
- API Design Principles: best practices for designing clean, efficient, and developer-friendly APIs.
- Topics related to versioning, authentication, rate limiting, and error handling.
- Real-world API Use Cases.
- Developer Experience and API Documentation.

## Important Dates

- Sunday Dec 1st 2024: Submission deadline (Closes at midnight Brussels time)
- Sunday Dec 15th 2024: Announcement of selected talks
- Sunday Feb 2nd 2025: Devroom at 1pm, in person at ULB Solbosch Campus, Brussels, Belguim

## Recording

Please be aware of the fact that, barring any technical difficulties, devroom
talks at FOSDEM will be recorded. By submitting a proposal you agree to be
recorded and to have your talk made available from the FOSDEM video platform.

## How to submit a talk

- Talk submissions can be 20 to 25 minutes, allowing a short Q&A time to fill the rest of the 30 minute slot
- Shorter (lightning) talks should be 10-12 minutes and should indicate "lightning talk" in the description
- Go to [FOSDEM pretalx](https://pretalx.fosdem.org/fosdem-2025/cfp) website
- Select ‘APIs: GraphQL, OpenAPI, AsyncAPI, and friends’ from the ‘Track’ field

## Code of Conduct

The code of conduct for FOSDEM is available at https://fosdem.org/2025/practical/conduct/

## Questions

You can reach the devroom organisers at: api-devroom-manager AT fosdem.org
The APIs: GraphQL, OpenAPI, AsyncAPI & Friends Devroom is organised by volunteers who also ran the API & Friends devroom last year, and joining forces with members of the GraphQL Technical Steering Committee to bring a GraphQL focus as well as fostering collaboration with folks representing OpenAPI and AsyncAPI projects.
